readme.md, before:

# jsr6720.github.io

Using GitHub Pages/jekyll to aggregate some content across several platforms and put it into readme format.

[https://jsr6720.github.io](https://jsr6720.github.io)

If I'm still paying for hosting [https://jsrowe.com](https://www.jsrowe.com)

## License

Code snippets [MIT](/CODE-LICENSE) unless otherwise noted.

Text written by stated author and covered by [CC0 1.0 Universal](/LICENSE)

## Tags

Decided not to use jekyll ```category|categories``` as its treated the same as ```tags``` but jekyll uses category in its url which I overrode anyways.

Primarily tagging by language and whatever I might need to find things again

- coding lanaguge, i.e. javascript, shell, python etcetera
- coding framework i.e. React, Spring Boot, Xcode

Some other tags I've used before

- technology
- architecture
- programming (engineering)
- personal (musings)
- business
- management
- career
- books
- reviews
- tools
- framework

### Book Review tags

A bit more comprehensive and aligned with the 'shelves' in goodreads

Primary shelf IN (read, reading, want to read, did not finish)

Book tags (might be some overlap from above)

- pyschology
- personal-development
- fantasy
- business (what a business is)
- management (what it takes to run a business)
- leadership (what it takes to be a leader)
- biography (usually covers a primary person)
- history (usually covers events)
- non-fiction
- fiction

## Other like-minded sites (?)

Keeping a list here until I know what I want to do with it

### Inspired

Sites that inspire me for both their content and design

https://martinfowler.com

https://lethain.com


### The web I like

Sites that I stumble upon that I appreciate (usually with original link I found)

https://gail.com
Just a fun site registered early in the domain era

https://www.alanwsmith.com
When ChatGPT/LLM Gives you an answer I like to think sites like this made a difference

Commit message:

adding an archive dump for my older stuff

readme.md, after:

# jsr6720.github.io

Using GitHub Pages/jekyll to share some thoughts. Dare I say publish them.

## Hosting

GitHub Pages [https://jsr6720.github.io](https://jsr6720.github.io)

If I'm still paying for hosting [https://jsrowe.com](https://www.jsrowe.com)

## Where did all the stuff come from pre-init date

Mostly [goodreads.com reviews](https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md) and [an old wordpress website](https://github.com/jsr6720/wordpress-html-scraper-to-md).

## License

Code snippets [MIT](/CODE-LICENSE) unless otherwise noted.

Text written by stated author and covered by [CC0 1.0 Universal](/LICENSE)

## Tags

Decided not to use jekyll `category|categories` as its treated the same as `tags` but jekyll uses category in its url which I overrode anyways. And I think `collections` fits the bill.

Primarily tagging by language and whatever I might need to find things again

- coding lanaguge, i.e. javascript, shell, python etcetera
- coding framework i.e. React, Spring Boot, Xcode

Some other tags I've used before

- technology
- architecture
- programming (engineering)
- personal (musings)
- business
- management
- career
- books
- reviews
- tools
- framework

### Book Review tags

A bit more comprehensive and aligned with the 'shelves' in goodreads

Primary shelf IN (read, reading, want to read, did not finish)

Book tags (might be some overlap from above)

- pyschology
- personal-development
- fantasy
- business (what a business is)
- management (what it takes to run a business)
- leadership (what it takes to be a leader)
- biography (usually covers a primary person)
- history (usually covers events)
- non-fiction
- fiction

### Inspiration

Sites that inspire me for both their content and design

https://martinfowler.com

https://lethain.com


### Immitation is the best form of flattery(?)

Sites that I stumble upon that I appreciate (usually with original link I found)

https://gail.com
Just a fun site registered early in the domain era

https://www.alanwsmith.com
When ChatGPT/LLM Gives you an answer I like to think sites like this made a difference

https://timopartl.com/
This guy builds apps
