---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "Detect Thoughts on \"The 80/20 Manager\""
date:   2016-05-04 00:00:00 -0400
tags: book review Koch business read-again
uid: c656f424-930c-4334-9e28-207d56734add
---

<!-- highly dependent on how you personally use jekyll templates, and how you want this to show up -->
<!-- escape any jekyll keys with double brackets -->

## My Review 5/5

This book assumes you have a solid understanding of the 80/20 principle. Preferable from Koch's previous work "The 80/20 Principle". This is a collection of 10 habits that great managers have.<br/><br/>1. Stay Curious. An investigative mind will always uncover the truth of the situation. Remember to be like children and ask "why" 3-7 times.<br/>2. Keep connected. You most common opportunities will come from casual acquaintances. In life there are "hard" lottery tickets (college, jobs, military) and "easy" lottery tickets. By interacting with acquaintances several times per year you increase your chances of drawing a winning lottery ticket from the "easy" pile<br/>3. Mentor/Mentee. Be available and willing to help others. See above staying connected. No telling how these small stitches in time will come back to repay you.<br/>4. Be a leveraged manager. A lever can apply a small force and move boulders. Money, people, decisions are all levers<br/>5. Honesty/Trust. Management by fear is a by gone era of when human capital was a commodity. Trust and honesty are harder but work better.<br/>6. Liberating manager. Trust your team and you can set them free to accomplish their best<br/>7. Self meaning manager. See way 1. Investigate who are at a self.<br/>8. Time rich. Effective managers have lots of time to reflect and think. Warren Buffett admits to reading in his office.<br/>9. Lazy. Don't do things. Know that very few decisions will results in the majority of the outcomes.<br/>10. Strategic. Pick only the things that you know will result in the best return. <br/><br/>Good book. need to return to it.

### Date Read
2016/05/04

### Date Added
2016/05/31

## Goodreads book information

*The 80/20 Manager: The Secret to Working Less and Achieving More* by Richard Koch

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18061875

Bookshelves: business, read-again

---

##### Author's Note

Initial `md` Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md

Richard Koch, *The 80/20 Manager: The Secret to Working Less and Achieving More*, Roger Davis Hachette Book Group 2013 (Audio CD)[^1]

##### Significant revisions

tags: {{ page.tags | join: ", " }} <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- {{ "2024-04-22 19:08:44" | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Converted to jekyll markdown format and copied to personal site
- {{ page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Originally published on [goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com)

##### EOF/Footnotes

[^1]: ISBN: ="1478980699"