---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "Detect Thoughts on \"Flow\""
date:   2016-04-20 00:00:00 -0400
tags: 2016 book review Csíkszentmihályi psychology
uid: 0a8af682-6fce-4eb5-b987-1f931608ffb7
---



## My Review 5/5

This audiobook is formatted as an interview with the author which is an interesting take. Like having a conversation with him about "Flow".<br/>Most important, he states "This book is no good to merely listen, only good if you take action".<br/><br/>Life is roughly split into thirds. 1/3 "work", 1/3 "maintenance", 1/3 "leisure activities". Everyone agrees that doing whatever you want is good. But what about the other 2/3 of your life? Could there be a way to maximize the pleasure gained from these otherwise 'routine' activities. Much research has been written about how man is never satisfied with a set level of material wealth. That given a set point a person becomes accustomed to it and the desires more. This is most evident by the "if I only had X I would be happy". One car, turns into two, Fords turn into Mercedes.<br/><br/>As learned from [Man's Search for Meaning](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4069) material possessions do not even have to exist for one to find a calling. As author puts it, man-kind has an inner drive to achieve something beyond material wealth. Call it spiritual or moral matters not. Man will pursue a passion in which he can escape from the reality of life.<br/><br/>Important note. You can "escape backwards" with drugs, alcohol and other vices, or you can "escape forward" with art, passion, states of flow. People who report experiencing a state of flow come out of it with heightened sense of self worth and respect.<br/><br/>8 Important aspects of "Flow"<br/>1. Clarity of large goal, and every small goal in-between. Immediate feedback on each movement.<br/>2. High level of concentration on the task at hand. All other concerns fade away<br/>3. Balance between skills and challenge at hand. Too much challenge and experience anxiety/frustration, too little and boredom/loss of interest<br/>4. Feeling of control. Every movement/decision is within your control. No action escapes you.<br/>5. Effortlessness. Knowing what to do and implementing this action takes no action.<br/>6. altered perception of time. Time either stops or flies. Two seconds in a heightened state takes hours, hours in a height stated feels like seconds<br/>7. melting together of action and consciousness<br/>8. auto-telic quality of experience. Reward from doing and accomplishing the goal<br/><br/>5 C's of flow<br/>1. Clarity - know thyself. know the goals<br/>2. Centering - be in balance. stress is a blocker to flow<br/>3. Choice - if you could do anything, make sure you are doing the thing you want to be doing<br/>4. Commitment - See through your goals<br/>5. Challenge - the path should not be so easy nor so hard. See above.

### Date Read
2016/04/20

### Date Added
2016/05/31

## Goodreads book information

*Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience* by Mihály Csíkszentmihályi

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2897682

Bookshelves: psychology

---

## Author's Note

Initial `md` Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md

Mihály Csíkszentmihályi, *Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience*,  Simon  Schuster Audio/Nightingale-Conant 2002 (Audio CD)[^1]

## Significant Revisions

tags: {{ page.tags | join: ", " }} <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- {{ "2024-04-22 19:08:44" | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Converted to jekyll markdown format and copied to personal site
- {{ page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Originally published on [goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com)

## EOF/Footnotes

[^1]: ISBN: ="0743525043"