---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "Detect Thoughts on \"Grit\""
date:   2017-11-20 00:00:00 -0400
tags: book review Duckworth psychology
uid: 269b1100-c908-46d4-9527-b803686897f9
---

<!-- highly dependent on how you personally use jekyll templates, and how you want this to show up -->
<!-- escape any jekyll keys with double brackets -->

## My Review 4/5

Often it's dedication to a task over time results in greatness. Not innate talent or ability. In fact these are lies we tell ourselves to allow us to feel better about not also achieving greatness.<br/><br/>To borrow an analogy from Collins. When the chicken emerges from the egg to the outside world it looks like a phenomenal achievement, but from the chicks perspective it's just the next step.<br/><br/>So how do you define grit? Essentially its the will to go on in the face of challenges, set backs and failures. Focus on a 'top-level' goal and perseverance is more attainable.<br/><br/>First 3rd and last 3rd of the book are best, lots of filler studies in the middle chapters that repeat the same message. Grit can be built and taught, here's another study that proves grit is a worth measure of success.

### Date Read
2017/11/20

### Date Added
2017/11/08

## Goodreads book information

*Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance* by Angela Duckworth

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25814095

Bookshelves: psychology

---

##### Author's Note

Initial `md` Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md

Angela Duckworth, *Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance*,  Simon & Schuster Audio 2016 (Audio CD)[^1]

##### Significant revisions

tags: {{ page.tags | join: ", " }} <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- {{ "2024-04-22 19:08:44" | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Converted to jekyll markdown format and copied to personal site
- {{ page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Originally published on [goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com)

##### EOF/Footnotes

[^1]: ISBN: ="1442397136"