---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "Detect Thoughts on \"Sapiens\""
date:   2017-10-24 00:00:00 -0400
tags: 2017 book review Harari history psychology read-again
uid: 07abfc17-476a-491a-8c81-caeaf6aa7039
---



## My Review 4/5

Great book. I cannot do it justice with the below takeaways.<br/><br/>Honestly it sneaked up on me that it was also a commentary book about how little our biology relates to our current social order. The first 1/3 of the book is very good, but once you get to the post-modern historical era brace yourself for lots of skimming and/or sweeping judgments on humanity.<br/><br/>Humans have relatives: Neanderthals and Erect-us that died out/purged?<br/>Humans have destroyed every ecology it's touched<br/><br/>Traversing through the three revolutions: Cognitive, Agriculture, Scientific/Technology, Sapiens have shaped the world with the one true revolution. Being able to lie/tell about a fantasy that isn't there.<br/><br/>These religions permeate all aspects of our culture. The shared myths allow us to extend our network beyond the 'tribe' onto the whole world.<br/><br/>The book ends depressingly enough with one of three outcomes<br/>1. ecological/nuclear disaster<br/>2. transform into cyber beings<br/>3. AI takes over the world<br/>4. Genetic engineering takes over the world

### Date Read
2017/10/24

### Date Added
2017/10/04

## Goodreads book information

*Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind* by Yuval Noah Harari

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25004163

Bookshelves: history, psychology, read-again

---

## Author's Note

Initial `md` Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md

Yuval Noah Harari, *Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind*, Derek Perkins Tantor Audio 2015 (Audiobook)[^1]

## Significant revisions

tags: {{ page.tags | join: ", " }} <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- {{ "2024-04-22 19:08:44" | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Converted to jekyll markdown format and copied to personal site
- {{ page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }} Originally published on [goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com)

## EOF/Footnotes

[^1]: ISBN: =""