_whitepapers/README.md, before:

# Whitepapers Readme

I like to read whitepapers, but often I either print them out and mark them up or forget where to find them. This will be my digital archive of things I read online that power discussions. Maybe.. Always trying new things.

# 2024-05-21

[Link Rot and Content Drift in Scholarly Publications](/_whitepapers/pl_2024.05.17_link-rot_report.pdf)

**Personal note** Based on this and my own porting of old content I've tried to use [https://archive.org](https://archive.org) and since storage is indefinitely free just import it here. Just in trying to download this again I had trouble finding it. Was it on slashdot? Wired? digg?

Pew Research Center, "Link Rot and Content Drift in Scholarly Publications," Pew Research Center, Washington, D.C., Report, May 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.pewresearch.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/20/2024/05/pl_2024.05.17_link-rot_report.pdf. [Accessed: May 21, 2024].

# 2024-05-14 

[Return to Office and the Tenure Distribution](/_whitepapers/wright-return-to-office.pdf)

D. Van Dijcke, F. Gunsilius, and A. Wright, "Return to Office and the Tenure Distribution," Harris School of Public Policy, University of Chicago, May 2024. [Online]. Available: https://harris.uchicago.edu/sites/default/files/wright-return-to-office.pdf. [Accessed: 14-May-2024].

[IEEE EDITORIAL STYLE MANUAL FOR AUTHORS](/_whitepapers/IEEE-Editorial-Style-Manual-for-Authors.pdf)

IEEE, "IEEE Reference Guide," IEEE Author Center, Dec. 2022. [Online]. Available: https://ieeeauthorcenter.ieee.org/wp-content/uploads/IEEE-Reference-Guide.pdf. [Accessed: 14-May-2024].

Commit message:

forever immortilizing my children's inspiration to me to go forth with integrity

_whitepapers/README.md, after:

# Whitepapers Readme

I like to read whitepapers, but often I either print them out and mark them up or forget where to find them. This will be my digital archive of things I read online that power discussions. Maybe.. Always trying new things.

# 2024-05-23

[Rowe Children Articles of Incorporation](/_whitepapers/rowe-children-company-trademark.pdf)

Ok so you caught me. Not really a whitepaper. But one of the benefits working from is disabusing my children that I do anything exciting beyond sign fancy documents with fancy logos. And isn't that worth preserving? I think Maddie was the representative owner of the team that day.

May I forever live up to the ideals of: Strength, Commitment, Productivity, Support and Partnership

For reference here is their [school's crest](/assets/posts-images/bcs1-crest-white.png)

# 2024-05-21

[Link Rot and Content Drift in Scholarly Publications](/_whitepapers/pl_2024.05.17_link-rot_report.pdf)

**Personal note** Based on this and my own porting of old content I've tried to use [https://archive.org](https://archive.org) and since storage is indefinitely free just import it here. Just in trying to download this again I had trouble finding it. Was it on slashdot? Wired? digg?

Pew Research Center, "Link Rot and Content Drift in Scholarly Publications," Pew Research Center, Washington, D.C., Report, May 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.pewresearch.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/20/2024/05/pl_2024.05.17_link-rot_report.pdf. [Accessed: May 21, 2024].

# 2024-05-14 

[Return to Office and the Tenure Distribution](/_whitepapers/wright-return-to-office.pdf)

D. Van Dijcke, F. Gunsilius, and A. Wright, "Return to Office and the Tenure Distribution," Harris School of Public Policy, University of Chicago, May 2024. [Online]. Available: https://harris.uchicago.edu/sites/default/files/wright-return-to-office.pdf. [Accessed: 14-May-2024].

[IEEE EDITORIAL STYLE MANUAL FOR AUTHORS](/_whitepapers/IEEE-Editorial-Style-Manual-for-Authors.pdf)

IEEE, "IEEE Reference Guide," IEEE Author Center, Dec. 2022. [Online]. Available: https://ieeeauthorcenter.ieee.org/wp-content/uploads/IEEE-Reference-Guide.pdf. [Accessed: 14-May-2024].
